Carnegie Mellon University ———<sep>Search<sep>Search this site only<sep>News News › Stories › Archives › 2019 › April › Buggy Races Keep Rolling at Carnegie Mellon<sep>Buggy Races Keep Rolling at Carnegie Mellon<sep>In its 99th year, the tradition is a Spring Carnival treat By Heidi Opdyke opdyke(through)andrew.cmu.edu<sep>Media Inquiries Marketing and Communications jmattera(through)cmu.edu 412-268-2902 Sweepstakes, also known as the Buggy Races, has come a long way at Carnegie Mellon University. The slick, torpedo-like vessels carrying drivers with nerves of steel are a far cry from the two-man teams that once changed places halfway through a race and rode in everything from rain barrels with bicycle wheels to three-wheeled ash cans 99 years ago. Today, it takes six people to maneuver the .84 -mile course around Schenley Park's Flagstaff Hill. But while five pushers and a driver navigate the course's hills, dozens of people are needed to make<sep>a successful race happen. A year of planning goes into just over two minutes of racing.<sep>The Machine The basics of a buggy are straightforward, but teams are often secretive in how they build the machines, in particular the way they brake, steer and what types of wheels are used. Each has a body, pushbar for runners to move the machine up the hills, wheels, a safety harness and driving and braking mechanisms. Some also include fairings, a type of housing around the wheels that help reduce drag, make the vehicle quieter and just looks cool. Fairings have been a key feature for the Fringe team in recent years, which is celebrating its 50th anniversary of<sep>Buggy. "We have a reputation of being the quietest on the course," said Diya Nuxoll, who wrapped up her bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering in December and is working on an advanced studies master's degree in design and manufacturing. Nuxoll leads the Fringe team as one of two head mechanics.<sep>Sweepstakes Slang This year Fringe is planning to roll four different vehicles, built and maintained in the Fringe workshop in the basement of the East Campus Garage, known as the "Froom." "We're used to saying everything with 'fr' in front of it but when we say something in front of other people, it gets them confused," said Fringe head mechanic Dave Singh, who will graduate in May with a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering and biomedical engineering. Fringe vehicles often are named with the letter "B," like Boson, Blueshift, Bissa and Bumper. Other teams, such as Apex, often use names<sep>that connotate fire, while the SDC (Student Dormitory Committee) team, uses names such as Vice, Bane, Avarice and Malice. This year's buggy names will be under wraps until Thursday, when the Buggy Showcase will take place from noon to 2 p.m. in Weigand Gymnasium in the Cohon University Center. It's one of the few times spectators can see buggies up close.<sep>Behind the Wheel Drivers, have the closest connection to the vehicles, aside from the mechanics who spent countless hours building and maintaining individual buggies. While races are brief, each driver must log a number of practice runs to qualify to race. Teams practice nights and weekends throughout the fall and spring semesters as weather permits. Buggies are often built around drivers, so the fit can be snug, and drivers are often less than 5 feet, 3 inches in height. Most — but not all — are women. Tishya Girdhar, a junior in neuroscience, is social chair for Fringe. She came<sep>to CMU wanting to drive, but first she had to get over being claustrophobic. She started as a mechanic and got behind the wheel for last year's Sweepstakes. "Our team's philosophy is to teach everyone how to do everything," Girdhar said. "But I came to CMU wanting to drive. I wanted to drive so badly." Safety is a top priority for teams. All drivers are required to have five pieces of safety gear: mouth guard, goggles, a harness that includes three points of contact to the body of the buggy, gloves and a helmet. And during practice runs and races,<sep>flaggers man the course to let drivers know if it's safe to proceed. The streets of the race course haven't changed, but the condition of the course varies due to potholes, which can make or break a fast run. The last course records were set in 2017, but this year potholes are making for some challenging conditions, said Amy Chen, a senior in psychology who has been driving for four years. With the vehicles just inches from the ground, "even poorly filled potholes makes it dangerous to drive," she added. Depending on Friday and Saturday's conditions, most heats may run<sep>just two lanes instead of three. But still, despite some of the challenges, Chen said she wouldn't miss it. "Being a driver is really fun," Chen said. "I love going fast and going around the course."<sep>— #CMUcarnival — Powered by Curator.io<sep>— Related Content —<sep>Media Advisory: Carnegie Mellon Celebrates Spring Carnival<sep>Buggy Races Keep Rolling at Carnegie Mellon<sep>Enjoy a World of Fun at Spring Carnival<sep>Student Architects Design Carnival Archway<sep>Take a Ride on The Old Mill at CMU MoBot Turns 25<sep>Witchner, Wood Roll Into Buggy Royalty The Piper: Campus & Community News Official Events Calendar<sep>Carnegie Mellon University<sep>5000 Forbes Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15213 412-268-2900 Legal Info www.cmu.edu © 2021 Carnegie Mellon University CMU on Facebook CMU on Twitter CMU on LinkedIn CMU YouTube Channel CMU RSS Feed CMU on Instagram CMU Social Media Directory Stories College of Engineering College of Fine Arts Dietrich College of Humanities & Social Sciences Heinz College of Information Systems and Public Policy Mellon College of Science School of Computer Science Tepper School of Business Archives 2021 March February January 2020 December November October September August July June May April March February January 2019 December November October September August July June May April<sep>March February January 2018 December November October September August July June May April March February January 2017 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2016 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2015 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2014 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2013 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2012 January February March April May June July August September October November December 2011 January February March April May<sep>June July August September October November December Media Highlights Media Resources Experts (Alphabetical) Experts (by Topic) Contact Us The Piper: Campus & Community News<sep>A History of Buggy: 1920, First Interfraternity Sweepstakes Race is held as part of the first alumni celebration, a springtime Campus Week; 1920, Iota Sigma Delta wins the first race with a time of 4:38; 1923, Amusing buggies, like Delta Upsilon's "Fish" and Printing Management's Bathtub from the early 1920s disappear for the most part after 1923; 1923 Buggy rules change to include a permanent driver and four pushers along the course; 1928 Campus Week is discontinued, but students continue the celebration, calling it Spring Carnival, which now features Buggy and Booth competitions; 1928 Independent organizations, other than fraternities, enter Buggy for the first time; 1930 — 1950, Early buggies are designed using the old Indy 500 car as a model. In the 1930s aluminum is used to build buggies, and the 60-pound minimum weight rule is abandoned.<sep>A History of Buggy: 1932, The buggy course is laid out in lanes, and the first three-wheeled buggy appears; 1938 As late as 1938 the Hill 2 pusher rides on the buggy through the freeroll section of the course; 1943 — 1945 No races occur during World War II; 1946, A new perspective in buggy design emerges, and the soapbox derby model with four wheels becomes common. Most drivers ride in crouched sitting positions; 1951 Brakes are required; 1953, ATO's "Golden Goose" brings about a radical change in buggy design. It places the driver prone, face forward in a buggy build low to the ground. Today's buggys are descendants of this design — extremely lightweight, three-wheeled machines with aerodynamic, one-piece fiberglass bodies; 1958, Driver Jim Phillips bends over the PIKA’s 'Shark."; 1960, DU enters a keg of beer mounted on four wheels.<sep>A History of Buggy: 1961, Another radical departure in buggy design appears with the SAE bike. The bike takes two seconds, two thirds and a fourth through 1965; 1963, In the foreground, ATO's 'Andy 2" is by Joe Pagliaro on raceday 1963; 1965, Sweepstakes is featured in a March 1965 story in National Geographic entitled "Pittsburgh, Pattern for Progress." "A student inside steers this ground-hugging buggy on the downhill runs, at times coasting at 40 m.p.h."; 1979, Women's heats are run for the first time; 1983, Pittsburgh's "Evening Magazine," which aired on KDKA-TV profiled Buggy; 1983, PIKA's "Bullet" set a course record of 2:09; 1986, Jerry Lewis is grand marshal of Sweepstakes; 1988, The independent organization Spirit set a course record of 2:06.20; 1989, The two-wheeled buggy is eliminated; 2004, Kappa Kappa Gamma enters the first all-women’s team in buggy history; 2017, Student Dormitory Council men’s and women’s teams set course records at 2:02.16 and 2:23.27, respectively.