1 Welcome
Welcome to Carnegie Mellon University! Being in the CMU School of Computer Science (SCS)
is a unique experience because of the size of the school (over 2000 students, staff and faculty),
the quality of its members, the variety of research being conducted, and unparalleled learning
opportunities. We encourage you to take advantage of CMU offerings, both inside and outside
SCS, and also to explore Pittsburgh and southwest Pennsylvania to the extent your schedule
permits. What you will find is an environment that encourages and rewards hard work and
accomplishment. Pittsburgh has long been an industrial area whose residents build things. In
SCS we build things, and you will also.
While this handbook is specific to your academic experience in the MSAII program, there are
several other resources and offices graduate students are encouraged to consult during their
tenure at Carnegie Mellon University. Information about The Word, the student handbook, the
Office of Graduate and Postdoc Affairs, the Office of the Dean of Student Affairs and others are
included in Appendix A of this handbook.
2 Mission, Vision and Philosophy
Carnegie Mellon University will have a transformative impact on society through continual
innovation in education, research, creativity, and entrepreneurship.
Our mission is to create a transformative educational experience for students focused on deep
disciplinary knowledge; problem solving; teamwork, leadership, communication, and
interpersonal skills; and personal health and well-being.
The university community is committed to (a) attracting and retaining diverse, world-class
talent; (b) creating a collaborative environment open to the free exchange of ideas, in which
research, creativity, innovation, and entrepreneurship can flourish; and (c) ensuring individuals
can achieve their full potential.
We encourage our members to impact society in a transformative way — regionally, nationally,
and globally — by engaging with partners outside the traditional borders of the university
campus. See the full university mission statement.
3 Carnegie Mellon Statement of Assurance
Carnegie Mellon University does not discriminate in admission, employment or administration
of its programs or activities on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, handicap or
disability, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, creed, ancestry, belief, veteran status
or genetic information. Furthermore, Carnegie Mellon University does not discriminate and is
required not to discriminate in violation of federal, state or local laws or executive orders.<sep>Inquiries concerning the application of and compliance with this statement should be directed
to the university ombudsperson, Carnegie Mellon University, 5000 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh,
PA 15213, telephone 412-268-1018. Obtain general information about Carnegie Mellon University
by calling 412-268-2000.
Carnegie Mellon University publishes an annual campus security and fire safety report
describing the university's security, alcohol and drug, sexual assault and fire safety policies, and
containing statistics about the number and type of crimes committed on the campus, and the
number and cause of fires in campus residence facilities during the preceding three years. You
can obtain a copy by contacting the Carnegie Mellon Police Department at 412-268-2323. The
annual security and fire safety report also is available online at
www.cmu.edu/police/annualreports..
Information regarding the application of Title IX, including to admission and employment
decisions, the sexual misconduct grievance procedures and process, including how to file a
report or a complaint of sex discrimination, how to file a report of sexual harassment, and how
the university responds to such reports is available at www.cmu.edu/title-ix. The Title IX
coordinator may be reached at 4615 Forbes Ave, Suite 330, Pittsburgh, PA 15213; 412-268-7125; or
tix@cmu.edu.
4 Carnegie Mellon Code
Students at Carnegie Mellon, because they are members of an academic community dedicated to
the achievement of excellence, are expected to meet the highest standards of personal, ethical
and moral conduct possible.
These standards require personal integrity, a commitment to honesty without compromise, as
well as truth without equivocation and a willingness to place the good of the community above
the good of the self. Obligations once undertaken must be met, commitments kept.
As members of the Carnegie Mellon community, individuals are expected to uphold the
standards of the community in addition to holding others accountable for said standards. It is
rare that the life of a student in an academic community can be so private that it will not affect
the community as a whole or that the above standards do not apply.
The discovery, advancement, and communication of knowledge are not possible without a
commitment to these standards. Creativity cannot exist without acknowledgment of the
creativity of others. New knowledge cannot be developed without credit for prior knowledge.
Without the ability to trust that these principles will be observed, an academic community
cannot exist.
The commitment of its faculty, staff, and students to these standards contributes to the high
respect in which the Carnegie Mellon degree is held. Students must not destroy that respect by<sep>their failure to meet these standards. Students who cannot meet them should voluntarily
withdraw from the university.
The Carnegie Mellon Code can also be found online.
5 University Policies and Expectations
It is the responsibility of each member of the Carnegie Mellon community to be familiar with
university policies and guidelines. In addition to this departmental graduate student handbook,
the following resources are available to assist you in understanding community expectations:
www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/theword/index.html
The Word/Student Handbook
https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-
Academic Integrity Policy
and-student-life/academic-integrity.html
University Policies Website www.cmu.edu/policies/
Office of Graduate and Postdoc http://www.cmu.edu/graduate/policies/index.html
Affairs
Due to the changing nature of conditions and expectations surrounding public health and safety
requirements please visithttps://www.cmu.edu/coronavirus/ for the most up to date
information.
Please see the Appendix A for additional information about The Word and other university
resources.
6 Academic Calendar
The Academic Calendar can be found at https://www.cmu.edu/hub/calendar/index.html and
provides information on all deadlines including registration dates, class start dates, add/drop
deadlines, exam dates and more.
7 School and Departmental Information
The following are key personnel with whom you may interact during your time at Carnegie
Mellon:
Martial Hebert
Dean, School of Computer Science<sep>University Professor
GHC 6105
412-268-5704
hebert@cs.cmu.edu
https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~hebert/
David Garlan
Associate Dean for Master’s Programs, SCS
Professor
TCS 420
garlan@cs.cmu.edu
http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~garlan/academics.htm
Carolyn Rosé
Interim Director, Language Technologies Institute
Professor
GHC 5415
412-268-7130
cprose@cs.cmu.edu
8 MSAII Policies
The Language Technologies Institute (LTI) has prepared this statement of policies, program
requirements, guidance, process and procedures for students in the M.S. in Artificial Intelligence
and Innovation (MSAII) program. A copy of this handbook is also available online at the
program website.
The University Student guide, The Word, which details university-wide policies, is also
available online at www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/theword.
Additional resources specific to graduate students can be found at
www.cmu.edu/graduate/policies/
8.1 The MSAII Degree
The M.S. in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation (MSAII) is a professional master's program
offered by the Language Technologies Institute (LTI) in the School of Computer Science at
Carnegie Mellon University. This program seeks to educate students in the innovative use of
artificial intelligence to create practical solutions in a wide variety of application areas. As
artificial intelligence matures, there is a great need for students who can envision, design, plan
and deliver solutions that integrate AI technologies such as deep learning, natural language
processing, robotics and big data analytics into new applications. The program stresses both<sep>intrapreneurship and entrepreneurship and encourages students to develop ideas for startups
and for introduction into established companies.
The curriculum is designed for students who have a strong background in computer science
with interest in in-depth study of AI to enable them to develop real-world applications,
especially in areas to which AI has not yet been applied. The integrated curriculum includes
coursework and team projects leading to a full-semester capstone project to produce a working
prototype.
8.2 Program Contacts
Michael I. Shamos
Director, MSAII
Distinguished Career Professor
GHC 6707
shamos@cs.cmu.edu
Amber Vivis
Academic Program Manager, MSAII
TCS 357
412-268-9998
avivis@cs.cmu.edu
Carolyn Penstein Rosé
Interim Director, Language Technologies Institute
Professor
GHC 5415
412-268-7130
cprose@cs.cmu.edu
8.3 The Reasonable Person Principle (RPP)
It is a long-standing and revered principle of the School of Computer Science (SCS) that
members of our community are expected to act reasonably, and therefore we try to keep formal,
written SCS policies to a minimum. The faculty do not burden the students with numerous
rules, and, in return, we expect the students to not try to find technical loopholes that violate
the clear intent of program policies. In any situation not covered by an explicit rule, you should
ask yourself how reasonable people would behave in that situation. The RPP does not alter
University-wide policies.
8.4 Academic Calendar<sep>The Academic Calendar can be found at https://www.cmu.edu/hub/calendar/index.html and
provides information on all deadlines including registration dates, class start dates, add/drop
deadlines, exam dates and more.
9 The Language Technologies Institute
9.1 Working Space for MS Students
Except for restrictions due to COVID, full-time students in the LTI’s MS degree programs on the
Pittsburgh campus have access to a shared working space to create a sense of community and
provide space for working when on campus.
9.2 Photocopies and Printers
Mailboxes, printers, copiers, and other departmental resources are located in GHC 5404
The use of a photocopier requires only a CMU ID card. The School of Computer Science
provides a number of black-and-white and color printers for use by students. The SCS
Computer Facilities publishes a list of printers online at
https://computing.cs.cmu.edu/desktop/printing. When you send a file to the print queue, you
may go to any of the listed printers, swipe your CMU ID, and the file will be printed on that
printer.
9.3 Computers for MS Students
Students are expected to provide their own laptop computers that can be used to access
university resources and complete course assignments. Laptops running Windows, MacOS, and
Linux software are all acceptable.
MS students will be given a CS user id. A CS user id is required to use the LTI computer cluster,
department printers, and other SCS services. The School of Computer Science has a Help
Center located at 4203 GHC. They can be contacted at help@cs.cmu.edu, extension 8-4231 from
a campus phone, or 412-268-4231 from an outside line.
MS students will be given access to the LTI’s computer cluster on an as-needed basis, to be used
for course assignments, directed study projects, and/or the capstone project. The LTI cluster
provides storage and computation for projects involving large datasets and/or lengthy
computation.<sep>10 Degree Requirements
MSAII students are expected to complete their degree requirements within five consecutive semesters,
fall, spring, summer internship, second fall, second spring. Under exceptional conditions, such as for
medical reasons, a student may be granted a leave of absence. See Section 11.1.10, below. Upon
completion of the graduate program degree requirements, the degree will be certified by the student’s
academic program in the semester in which the student completes the requirements.
10.1 Course Grade and GPA Requirements
To receive the M.S. degree, all students must take and successfully complete at least 195 units
of coursework. All required Core Courses must be completed with a grade of B or better. For
the Knowledge Area Courses, students must maintain a B average. No grade lower than C (or
Pass in the case of Pass/No Pass courses) shall be used for credit applied toward graduation.
Under SCS policy, only a grade of C or higher will be regarded as a Pass in a Pass/No Pass
course. No undergraduate courses count toward the 195-unit requirement.
All Core courses are organized in sequence, and must be taken in the following order:
 Artificial Intelligence and Future Markets (11-651) – No prerequisite.
 AI Engineering (11-695) – Prerequisite is the completion of 11-651 with a grade of “B” or
better.
 LTI Practicum (11-935) – Three credit units for completing the required Internship.
 AI Innovation (11-654) – Prerequisite is the completion of 11-695 with a grade of “B” or
better.
 Capstone (11-699) – Prerequisite is the completion of 11-654 with a grade of “B” or better.
Students are required to repeat any required course that they have completed with a grade less
than the required minimum, preferably at the next offering. (Please note that Core courses and
Knowledge courses are only offered once per year.) Students will be allowed to retake a required
course only once. If a student fails in the second attempt, he or she will be dropped from the
MSAII program.
If a student fails an elective course, she or he will need to repeat the same or take a substitute
course (equivalent course approved by the Director).
All grades count towards the program QPA, except for repeated courses, in which case the final
grade replaces the previous grade. Courses taken pass/no pass do not affect the student’s QPA.
However, ONLY ELECTIVE COURSES MAY BE TAKEN PASS/NO PASS, unless the Provost
directs to the contrary. Students who do not achieve the required minimum grade in a required
course, who elect to take an “incomplete” in a required course, or whose cumulative grade point
average is below a B (3.0), will be placed on academic probation. Students on probation are not
eligible to graduate. Students who are placed on academic probation shall receive written
notice of this finding, including a list of measures that need to be taken to be removed from<sep>academic probation. A student on academic probation for two consecutive semesters may be
dropped from the program.
The MSAII program conducts an academic progress review at the conclusion of each semester in
order to monitor individual student progress toward graduation. Should a student’s effort fall
below the acceptable academic performance and/or fail to meet the standards established by the
MSAII program and Carnegie Mellon University, the student may be dismissed from the
program.
Should a student’s overall QPA drop below 3.0 during any given semester, he/she will be placed
on academic probation for the following semester and will be required to improve his/her grades
to no less than overall 3.0 QPA during that period. Failure to improve to an overall 3.0 QPA or
better the following semester may result in termination from the program. In addition, a student
who violates policies established by Carnegie Mellon University may be dismissed from the
program.
After each academic progress review, a student may receive one or more letters, indicating the
result of the review. Warning letters are issued for the following cases:
1) Overall QPA below 3.0 (Academic probation)
2) Semester QPA is below 3.0
3) Grade below B in a Core course
4) Academic Integrity Violation (AIV) according to the university policies. This includes any
AIV letter received in during the summer preceding matriculation.
A student may be terminated from the program under any of the following circumstances:
a) A student who has received two Academic Integrity Violation (AIV) letters will be
terminated. There are no exceptions and the Program Director has no discretion over
such a termination as it is an LTI policy.
b) A student who has received one Academic Integrity Violation (AIV) letter may be
terminated by the Program Director if the violation is so serious that the student cannot
be allowed to remain in the MSAII Program.
c) A student has received three warning letters of any type from the MSAII program.
d) A student has been found to have violated a University Policy for which termination is
provided.
An AIV letter or violation of University Policy may be appealed pursuant to CMU appeal
procedures. See Section 4.5.2, below. However, a decision to terminate a student after appeal
because of conditions a), b), c) or d) is not appealable.
10.2 Course Requirements<sep>1) Summer Before Entrance
Admitted students are required to take, pay for, and pass 15-513 Introduction to
Computer Systems OR 11-637 Foundations of Computational Data Science during the
summer prior to their arrival at Carnegie Mellon. The units earned in these courses are
not counted toward the total number of units required for graduation. These courses
may be taken pass/no pass, but cannot be dropped. A student who drops either course
during the summer will not be permitted to begin the degree program in the fall, but
must retake one of the courses the following summer. The MSAII course offerings are
available at msaii.cs.cmu.edu/curriculum. The university’s complete Schedule of
Classes can be found at https://enr-apps.as.cmu.edu/open/SOC/SOCServlet/search.
Students are then required to take and successfully complete the courses below:
2) The Core Courses (87 units) - Must be taken in THIS SEQUENCE:
11-651 – AI & Future Markets – (12 units). First Fall semester. Only open to MSAII.
17-762 – Law of Computer Technology (12 units). First Fall semester
11-695 – AI Engineering (12 units). First Spring semester
11-935 – LTI Practicum (3 units). Summer Internship
11-654 – AI Innovation (12 units). Second Fall semester. Only open to MSAII.
11-699 – Capstone Project (36 units). Second Spring semester. Only open to MSAII.
3) The Knowledge Area Courses (72 units):
11-601, Coding Bootcamp (12 units). First fall semester.
10-601, Machine Learning (12 units), First fall semester. (Normally
11-691, Math for Machine Learning, which is not being offered in Fall 2022.)
10-605, Machine Learning with Large Datasets (12 units). First spring semester.
11-611, Natural Language Processing (12 units). Second fall semester.
11-785, Deep Learning (12 units). Second spring semester.
One more 12-unit AI, ML or NLP course of the student’s choice (with approval of the
Program Director)
In the event that a course is not available, a course covering equivalent material with a
similar degree of difficulty may be substituted with the permission of the Director. If a<sep>student has already taken an equivalent course and shows proficiency in the subject
area, a more advanced course in the area may be taken in place of these required
courses with permission of the Director. Graduate students cannot receive credit for
undergraduate courses.
4) Electives:
A minimum of 36 units of SCS courses must be taken. It is recommended to take one
elective in the first fall semester, one or two in the first spring semester, one or two in
the second fall semester and zero or one in the second spring semester. The courses
below are automatically approved. A student who wants to take a course not listed
must obtain approval of the Director prior to registering. In general, the Director will
approve any graduate SCS course of not more than 12 units. It is also possible to seek
approval for courses in other Colleges at CMU. However, those courses must be
rationally related to an AI career in order to be approved as electives.
11-636 MSAII Independent Study (may be taken ONCE as an elective unless permission
of the Director is obtained)
11-641 Machine Learning for Text Mining
11-642 Search Engines
11-676 Big Data Analytics
11-747 Neural Networks for NLP
11-755 Machine Learning for Signal Processing
11-777 Advanced Multimodal Machine Learning
11-791 Design of Intelligent Information Systems
10-605 Machine Learning with Large Datasets
10-608 Conversational Machine Learning
10-702 Statistical Machine Learning
15-624 Foundations of Cyber-Physical Systems
15-645 Database Systems
15-681 AI: Representation and Problem Solving
15-688 Practical Data Science
16-720 Computer Vision
16-725 Medical Image Analysis
16-772 Sensing and Sensors
16-824 Visual Learning and Recognition
17-637 Web Application Development
17-639 Management of Software Development
17-652 Methods: Deciding What to Design
17-653 Managing Software Development
17-766 Software Engineering for Startups<sep>02-604 Fundamentals of Bioinformatics
02-718 Computational Medicine
Independent study (11-636) is encouraged. The process is that you find a faculty
member willing to supervise your independent study, assign a number of credits not to
exceed 12, and assign a grade at the end of the study. The faculty member must send
an email to the Director indicating such willingness. You can then register for 11-636.
Courses carrying more than 12 units in a semester are NOT APPROVED as electives.
Students may take athletics or music or theatrical performance courses that do not
require work outside of class times. However, such courses will NOT count toward
the 195 units required for graduation.
10.2.1 Incomplete Grades
Carnegie Mellon University students are expected to complete a course during the academic
semester in which the course was taken. However, if the instructor agrees, a grade of “I”
(incomplete) may be given when a student has been unable to complete the work of a course.
However, the work completed up to that date must be of passing quality and the grade of
incomplete provides no undue advantage to that student over other students.
By awarding an “I” grade, an instructor must specify the requirements for the completion of the
work and designate a default letter grade in the event that the student fails to complete the
remaining work.
Students must complete the required course work by no later than the end of the following
academic semester or sooner if required by the instructor.
The instructor must record the permanent course grade by the last day of the examination
period of the following semester, or the Registrar will automatically assign the default grade.
If further work has not been completed after one semester and a default grade is rendered, the
default grade will become the grade of record.
10.2.2 Change of grades and missing grades
If a grade has been assigned in error, it can be changed to a different permanent grade. The
procedure for changing a grade is as follows:
 Discuss the matter with the course instructor; provide evidence that the grade issued was
not the grade earned.<sep> If the instructor agrees, the student should contact the program administrator to process
a Change of Grade Form in order to correct the grade that was issued in error. Generally,
the instructor is the final authority for a course grade.
 If a grade has not been assigned, please notify the course instructor for the completion of
a Missing Grade Form.
10.2.3 Transferring to another program
A student may withdraw from the MSAII program at any time. If any requirement for the
MSAII degree has not been met, the degree will not be awarded. Occasionally, students are
accepted into a different degree program at CMU and transfer to that program. International
students who do this should check with OIE to ensure that their visa is not jeopardized.
10.2.4 Intellectual Property Policy
See http://www.cmu.edu/policies/documents/IntellProp.html.
10.2.5 Teaching Requirements
None. Students who wish to do so may apply for teaching assistant positions for courses in
which they have excelled. It is important to ensure that the student’s academic responsibilities
are not adversely impacted by a TAship, and vice-versa.
10.3 Advising
10.3.1 Student Advising
Every MSAII student will be assigned an advisor, normally the Program Director. Before the
course registration period each semester, students must meet with their advisor to discuss their
course selection. New students will be given instructions to register for their classes during the
summer prior to entrance.
10.3.2 Monitoring Progress
The advisor meets with the student at least twice a year, providing guidance and monitoring the
student’s overall progress.
10.3.3 Degree Certification
Students who graduate having met all the requirements for the degree will receive a diploma
stating that they have received a “Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence and Innovation.”<sep>10.4 Internship
Students must obtain an internship during the summer between the first and second years of the
program. This is a requirement. An internship will provide students with the opportunity to
apply the knowledge and technical skills learned during the first year of the program, to gain
insight into AI and future market needs to further their experience and develop a strong context
for the second-year concentration coursework. Normally the internship will be with an outside
company. In some circumstances, a student who is doing research with a CMU faculty member
during the summer may request that such research qualify as an internship.
The internship must involve at least two months of full-time work and must relate to computer
software development and is preferably AI-related.
Students are encouraged to intern with an organization that corresponds to their individual area
of interest and career goals.
All students who secure summer internships must register for three units in 11-935 (LTI
Practicum). This course can be taken once during the program with Pass/Fail and will be
counted toward graduation units. International students must apply for Curricular Practical
Training (CPT) for the internship by contacting the Office of International Education (OIE). To
obtain CPT, students need an offer letter spelling out employment dates, work hours, and wages
or stipend. It is the student’s responsibility in 11-935 to give a presentation during the semester
following the internship to all current MSAII students detailing the student’s internship
experience.
International students who are interested in working in the U.S after graduation are required to
consult with the Office of International Education (OIE) which oversees the OPT registration.
Note: OPT must only be used after students have completed their degree at Carnegie Mellon.
NOTE: Students are personally responsible for securing a suitable internship. The Career and
Professional Development Center will assist in their search for counseling, workshops, and
internship opportunity listings in Handshake. We strongly suggest students begin the
internship search beginning in the Fall of your first year. Some internship opportunities have
application deadlines in the Fall, so by starting your search early, you won't miss out on these
internships. The Career and Professional Development Center will assist students with the
internship search, but does not match students with employers; obtaining an internship is the
students’ responsibility.
The following steps are recommended to ensure a successful internship outcome. Many of the
events below have been modified due to COVID.
September/October
 Meet with your advisor to discuss your interests and plan your internship search.<sep> Review the internships of previous students. We also encourage you to speak informally
with second-year students who can offer first-hand information about their internships.
 Attend the Technical Opportunities Conference (TOC) at Carnegie Mellon for exposure
to potential employers for internships.
November/December
 Begin researching organizations and internship opportunities. Pay close attention to
organizations that have established internship programs and their deadlines.
 Attend workshops to perfect your resume, hone your interviewing skills, and gain
knowledge about the internship search process.
January/February
 At this point, you should have a “short list” of organizations at which you would like to
intern. This list can include organizations that have established internship programs as
well as those that interest you without formal internship programs.
 Update your resume with relevant academic projects, coursework, etc.
 Begin utilizing your network for internship leads as well as checking organization’s
websites for internships.
 Make contact with employers, sending resumes and applications, and initiating internship
interviews in person or by phone.
 Attend Network Nights and talk to alumni about internship opportunities in their
organization. They are an excellent resource for learning more about a particular
organization, career field or employment opportunity. You can find alumni in the Alumni
Directory, Alumni Career Advisor Network, and Carnegie Mellon Alumni LinkedIn
Network.
March/April
 At this point, you should have secured an internship or be interviewing with various
organizations.
 Prepare a backup plan if your first choices of internships do not work out.
 Attend relevant Network Nights and Career Fairs at Carnegie Mellon.
 If you are an F-1 Visa student, you must apply for CPT.
 MSAII students should enroll in 11-935 for three units. You will not have to pay tuition for
this course.
10.5 Employment Eligibility Verification
If you are receiving compensation or a stipend from CMU, if you are going to be a TA or you are
planning to seek a position with CMU, then Employment Eligibility Verification is required.
Form I-9 must be completed within 3 business days of beginning work for any type of
compensation (stipend or employment). Additional details are highlighted below.<sep>To ensure compliance with federal law, Carnegie Mellon University maintains the Employment
Eligibility Verification (I-9) Policy [pdf] covering the university’s I-9 and E-Verify requirements:
Every individual receiving a stipend from CMU or employed by CMU must comply with the I-9
Policy by completing the Form I-9 within three business days following the first day of stipend
start date/employment.
Individuals who expect to work on a federally funded project are further responsible for
submitting an E-Verify Processing Request Form to the Office of Human Resources.
For more information, please see CMU’s Guidance for Completing the Form I-9 and E-Verify
Requirements at CMU [pdf], or visit the Human Resources Service website to learn more about
Form I-9 and E-Verify and to schedule an appointment to complete the Form I-9.
10.6 MSAII Orientation
Each Fall semester, the MSAII program provides a program orientation to help new students
learn about the program. All new students are required to attend them and treat them seriously
because they explain the program sequence, its Core and Knowledge courses requirements and
how students will meet the program learning outcomes.
10.7 End of Semester Evaluation
The MSAII program conducts an academic progress review at the conclusion of each semester in
order to monitor individual student progress towards graduation. Should a student’s effort fall
below the acceptable level of academic performance and/or fail to meet the standards
established by the MSAII program, the student may be dismissed from the program.
After each academic progress review, a student may receive one or more letters, indicating the
result of the review. See Section 3.1, Course Grade and GPA Requirements, above.
At the end of the semester, the faculty evaluates each student's academic progress. If a student
seems to be having trouble, the faculty determines whether it believes that the student can
finish the degree, and if so, what needs to be accomplished to get back on track. This type of
letter should be considered a serious warning. It is not a permanent "black mark" on the
student's record; if the student begins making satisfactory progress again, there is no official
record of the letter in the student's transcript.
In the most serious cases, the faculty gives the student a letter that specifies a list of conditions
that the student must satisfy by specific deadlines. Failure to meet all of the specified conditions
may result in the student's termination from the program.<sep>10.8 Enrollment Verification
Enrollment Services is the only University office that can provide an official letter of enrollment,
official transcript, and enrollment verification. Enrollment verification can be requested online
through The HUB at www.cmu.edu/hub/registrar/student-records/transcripts/.
10.9 University Policies on Grades and Grading
10.9.1 University Policy on Grades
www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/grading.html
This policy offers details concerning university grading principles for students taking courses
and covers the specifics of assigning and changing grades, grading options, drop/withdrawals,
and course repeats. It also defines the undergraduate and graduate grading standards.
10.9.2 University Policy on Grades for Transfer Courses & PCHE
www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/transfer-credit-evaluation-and-
assignment.html
Carnegie Mellon University offers students the opportunity to take courses for credit through a
cross-registration program (see Pittsburgh Council on Higher Education (PCHE) and Cross-
registration below) and through the receipt of transfer credit from other accredited institutions.
The Carnegie Mellon University transcript will include information on such courses as follows:
Carnegie Mellon courses and courses taken through the university's cross-registration program
will have grades recorded on the transcript and be factored into the QPA. All other courses will
be recorded on this transcript indicating where the course was taken but without a grade. Such
courses will not be taken into account for academic actions, honors or QPA calculations. (Note:
Suspended students may take courses elsewhere; however, they may receive transfer credit only
if their college’s and department's policies allow this.)
The MSAII program does not accept transfer credit for courses taken prior to matriculation at
Carnegie Mellon.
The MSAII program does not accept distance education credits except for distance courses
offered by Carnegie Mellon or PCHE institutions.
10.10 Academic Integrity
Carnegie Mellon’s Academic Integrity policy is posted at
https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/academic-integrity.html. All students<sep>are expected to be familiar with this policy, including the university-wide protocol for handling
academic integrity violations. The policy includes the University expectations around academic
integrity and provides definitions of cheating, plagiarism, and unauthorized assistance.
A review of the University’s Academic Disciplinary Actions procedures
(https://www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/theword/academic-discipline/index.html) is also
recommended. These procedures outline the process for investigating, reporting, and
adjudicating violations of the University Policy on Academic Integrity. The procedures also
outline the appeal process.
It is an absolute requirement that the work you submit must be your own, unless you
specifically identify the source of any material that is not yours. This includes quotations and
material from websites. In any written work (including presentations) you MUST list any
person other than yourself who assisted you in preparing that work. Any student who violates
the academic integrity policy will be subject to a University review that may result in
suspension or expulsion under University policies. THE PROGRAM DIRECTOR, THE
FACULTY AND THE UNIVERSITY ARE VERY SERIOUS ABOUT ENFORCEMENT OF THE
ACADEMIC INTEGRITY POLICY.
You are not permitted to copy material from web pages, including Wikipedia, and present them
as your own work. Any copied material MUST appear in quotation marks or italics and MUST
be accompanied by a citation to the original source. Failure to do this violates CMU’s Policy on
Academic Integrity, which states, “In all academic work to be graded, the citation of all sources
is required. … Plagiarism is defined as the use of work or concepts contributed by other
individuals without proper attribution or citation. Unique ideas or materials taken from another
source for either written or oral use must be fully acknowledged in academic work to be
graded.”
It is a violation of academic integrity for you to assist anyone else in violating the policy or to
provide your work to others to assist them. Because team deliverables are the product of joint
work, it is the responsibility of each member of a team to ensure that all team materials have
been produced in conformance with CMU policies. Credit cannot be given for work that is not a
student’s own. Therefore, if one member of a team violates a policy, for example, by copying
material from the Internet without indicating its source, then no one on the team can receive
credit for that work, even if only one student is directly guilty of violating the policy.
We are aware that acts that constitute cheating can be viewed very differently in different
countries and cultures. However, Carnegie Mellon is a U.S. university and its policies reflect
U.S. culture. Employers expect that students who graduate from Carnegie Mellon have
obtained their degree legitimately and according to Carnegie Mellon policies. If you have any
doubt whether proposed conduct would be considered cheating under Carnegie Mellon policies,
ASK A FACULTY MEMBER OR THE DIRECTOR FIRST.<sep>All violations of the Academic Integrity policy MUST be reported to the University
administration by the faculty members involved. Copies go to the Program Director, the Head of
the Language Technology Institute, the Associate Dean for Master’s Programs, and various
officials at Warner Hall. The faculty do not have the option to decline to make a report. The
offending student will receive an email to inform them of an Academic Integrity Violation (AIV).
The email will specify the offense and the penalty, and will inform the student of available
appeal procedures. An AIV that is successfully appealed is erased.
Important note: The university policy gives a department the option of “conven[ing] a
disciplinary hearing according to the procedures of the department/program.” The LTI has a
“two strikes” rule. The LTI may terminate a student for a first violation, depending upon the
circumstances and severity of the violation. The LTI always terminates a student for a second
violation, with no exceptions.
11 Academic Policies
11.1 Course Registration
11.1.1 Status
All Students must be registered for at least 48 units during each semester. Any questions about
registration should be directed to the Enrollment Services (the HUB). Note that International
students are required to be registered as full-time students, minimum 36 units.
11.1.2 Academic Calendar
The Academic Calendar can be found at https://www.cmu.edu/hub/calendar/. All dates about
registration, add/drop deadlines, university holidays and more can be found there.
11.1.3 Online Registration
All new students will register for required courses in April after accepting admission and
receiving an Andrew ID. After that, students will register following the schedule set by the
HUB. Note that students must meet with their advisor to obtain approval for their course
selection. Registration information is available at
www.cmu.edu/hub/registrar/registration/index.html. Online registration is done with an
Andrew ID at https://www.cmu.edu/hub/sio/about.html.
Students must register for at least 48 units per semester.<sep>11.1.4 Double-Dipping
An MSAII student who applies courses taken as part of another degree program (at Carnegie
Mellon or elsewhere) toward their program requirements cannot use those same courses toward
any other M.S. degree offered by the School of Computer Science without prior approval.
11.1.5 Pass/No Pass Courses (Pass/Fail)
With the approval of the Program Director, a graduate student may choose to take one
ELECTIVE course pass/no pass. Core courses and Knowledge courses may not be taken pass/no
pass. By the deadline for changing a course to pass/no pass, the student must fill out the
Pass/No Pass Approval Form and receive permission from their advisor. A pass/no pass election
is irrevocable as a matter of CMU policy. (A form can be found at
https://www.cmu.edu/hub/forms.html)
11.1.6 Auditing a Course
With the approval of the Program Director, a graduate student may audit a course by obtaining
the permission of the instructor or teaching department and completing the Course Audit
Approval Form. Audited classes are not taken for credit and cannot be used to fulfill graduation
requirements. (Audit form can be found at https://www.cmu.edu/hub/forms.html)
11.1.7 Adding a Course
During the ADD period of each semester (the first two weeks of the semester), students may add
a course by registering online. After the ADD deadline, they may add a course by completing the
Late Add Request form and obtaining the permission of both: 1) the instructor or teaching
department and 2) their advisor. (Add form can be found at
https://www.cmu.edu/hub/forms.html)
11.1.8 Dropping a Course
Dropping courses is not recommended except for reasons of health or family emergency. Many
SCS courses have long waitlists, and dropping a course means that some other student who
might have had the opportunity to take the course had been denied that ability. Also, if students
in the MSAII program drop courses, then the instructors of those courses may no longer allow
MSAIIs to enroll.
Sometimes, however, a student’s workload can become unexpectedly heavy because of course
requirements. No one is expected to suffer from such pressure and dropping a course may
become a necessity. To avoid this unfortunate circumstance, you should inform yourself in
advance of the curriculum and workload in each course you plan to take and ensure that you are
capable of handling the load. Note that CMU SCS courses are very difficult, and students who<sep>may easily have handled taking five courses simultaneously at another institution may not be
able to do so at CMU.
Exact add, drop and withdrawal dates may be found on the official Academic Calendar. Up until
the deadlines, students can initiate course adds and drops through Student Information Online
(SIO). Courses dropped by the deadline will not appear on the student's record, and courses
withdrawn from by the deadline will receive a 'W' grade. Additionally, a voucher process has
been implemented for late drops.
Students taking undergraduate and Master’s level courses must follow the procedures and
deadlines for adding, dropping, or withdrawing from courses as identified on the academic
calendar. Information can be found at https://www.cmu.edu/hub/registrar/course-
changes/index.html.
Late Course Drops & Vouchers
A late drop voucher system was implemented beginning with the fall 2018 semester to permit a
limited number of late course drops. Master's students are permitted one drop voucher per year
of study and may use only one voucher per semester (including summer). Courses dropped
using a voucher will be removed from the student's record, as long as the drop is confirmed in
SIO by the student within 24 hours of receiving the automated voucher email (refer to
instructions below). Students may use drop vouchers up until the last day of classes each
semester. These policies are spelled out at https://www.cmu.edu/hub/registrar/course-
changes/index.html.
Note that the Core courses and some Knowledge courses are only offered once per year so
dropping a course may delay program completion.
Note: International students must maintain a minimum of 36 units (Full time) to meet the U.S.
government’s visa requirement. Please check with the Office of International Education (OIE)
for more information.
11.1.9 Transfer Credits
https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/transfer-credit-evaluation-and-
assignment.html
Carnegie Mellon University offers students the opportunity to take courses for credit through a
cross-registration program (see Pittsburgh Council on Higher Education (PCHE) and Cross-
registration below) and through the receipt of transfer credit from other accredited institutions.
The Carnegie Mellon University transcript will include information on such courses as follows:
Carnegie Mellon courses and courses taken through the university's cross-registration program
will have grades recorded on the transcript and be factored into the QPA. All other courses will
be recorded on this transcript indicating where the course was taken, but without grades. Such<sep>courses will not be taken into account for academic actions, honors or QPA calculations. (Note:
suspended students may take courses elsewhere; however, they may receive transfer credit only
if their college's and department's policies allow this.).
The MSAII program does not accept transfer credits.
11.1.10 Leave of Absence
Students who need to delay their studies for personal, medical or academic reasons may do so
with a leave of absence (leaving the university temporarily with a commitment to return).
Students must contact the MSAII Director to discuss their plans and fill out the appropriate
form. The student’s place in the program will be held until a mutually determined time. For
more information refer to www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/student-leave.html.
When planning to return from Leave of Absence students must complete the appropriate
paperwork before returning to the University.
MSAII students who require longer than the standard time to complete their degree
requirements are expected to remain in close contact with the program, and will be certified at
the end of the semester in which they have completed their degree requirements. Students must
refer to the CMU Policy on Master’s Student Statute of Limitations
(https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/masters-students-statute-of-
limitations.html) regarding guidelines and restrictions which place an upper limit on the
maximum length of time allowable for master’s degree completion and certification.
11.1.11 Additional Guidance for Students
Program of study. Students seeking guidance about their program of study and degree
requirements should consult with their academic advisor and/or appropriate associate dean.
Financial aid and student account. Students are expected to make normal progress toward
their degree in order to graduate within the standard timeframe for their program of study.
Under U.S. Federal Title IV regulations, student eligibility for federal financial aid is contingent
upon enrollment in and successful completion of courses that are counted as credit toward their
current degree program. To receive the maximum amount of federal financial aid for which they
may be eligible, students must enroll each semester in at least 36 units that count toward their
current degree level. (See separate guidance regarding integrated degree completion.)
Students should consult with their designated college liaison in The HUB regarding billing and
financial aid, particularly for early completion, longer-than-standard completion, or integrated
undergraduate and master’s degree programs.
International students. Immigration status for students in F-1 and J-1 non-immigrant status is
tied to making normal progress toward completing degree requirements. Therefore, F-1 and J-1<sep>students who are considering completing their degree requirements early, anticipating longer-
than-standard completion, or moving from an undergraduate to a graduate student classification
(integrated undergraduate-graduate study) should consult with their designated advisor in the
Office of International Education (OIE) to ensure compliance with immigration regulations.
11.1.12 Withdrawal
Students who need to withdraw from the program (leave the university with no intention of
returning) for personal, medical or academic reasons must contact the MSAII Director to
discuss their plans and fill out the appropriate form. For more information refer to
www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/student-leave.html.
11.2 Tuition and Fees
Information about tuition and fees is available at https://www.cmu.edu/sfs/tuition/index.html.
MSAII students will pay tuition according to the rates set for the School of Computer Science.
All tuition and fees must be paid in full by the due date; a student not in good financial standing
will be dismissed from the program. Students taking summer courses must pay tuition.
11.3 Graduation Ceremonies
The University holds one Commencement ceremony in May of each year. Only students who
have completed their degree requirements may participate in Commencement.
There are no August or December commencement ceremonies.
11.3.1 Withdrawal of Degree
A degree once conferred can be withdrawn by the University under certain circumstances. See
the Withdrawal of Degree Policy.
11.4 LTI Academic Policies
11.4.1 “Grandfather” policy
A student can graduate under the policies in effect at the time that the student entered the
program; or, at the student's choice, the student can graduate under policies that are adopted
after the student entered the program. If it is not realistic to follow a particular policy exactly,
the department may approximate the policy as closely as possible; this situation is rare and
typically arises only when a student is enrolled in the program for an extended period.<sep>11.4.2 Definition of transfer credit versus course exemption
The LTI may grant transfer credit or issue an exemption for equivalent graduate courses
previously completed at another institution. This decision rests with the program director, on
the advice of the faculty member for whose course an exemption is sought. If a student is
exempt from a required course due to prior courses or experience, the student can replace that
course with an open elective. The student does not receive credit for the exempted course but
can take any course that could normally count toward the degree in its place. If a student
receives credit for prior coursework completed at Carnegie Mellon or elsewhere, the student
receives that many units of credit and the total amount of required coursework is reduced by
that amount.
11.4.3 Employment/Consulting
Since consulting provides useful experience, students are generally permitted to consult at most
one day per seven-day week, with the Program Director's consent. International students must
also have approval in advance from the Office of International Education (OIE) for any paid
position. Students may use their consulting time to perform unpaid work on research projects
for CMU faculty for up to 10 hours per week.
Students may serve as teaching assistants for CMU faculty. TA work is inconsistent with
research because of the necessary time commitment. Students must choose one activity or the
other, not both.
Note that there is an English language proficiency requirement for TAs. Graduate students are
required to have a certain level of fluency in English before they can instruct in Pennsylvania, as
required by the English Fluency in Higher Education Act of 1990. Through this Act, all
institutions of higher education in the state are required to evaluate and certify the English
fluency of all instructional personnel, including teaching assistants and interns. The full
university policy can be reviewed at: https://www.cmu.edu/policies/faculty/evaluation-
certification-english-fluency-instructors.html.
11.4.4 Leave of Absence
The LTI discourages Leaves of Absence (LOA) since students usually do not return, despite
having good intentions. However, a student in good standing may be granted a LOA of at most
one year, upon written request to the MSAII Director and with the consent of the student's
advisor. It is the responsibility of the student on LOA to contact the LTI to initiate a return to
the program.
Students taking or returning from a leave of absence must follow the university’s leave of
absence process, which is described at www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-
life/student-leave.html.<sep>11.4.5 Satisfactory Progress
If a student does not make satisfactory progress each semester toward completing the degree, the
LTI may remove the student from the program. See section on “End of Semester Evaluation.”
11.5 Carnegie Mellon Academic Policies
11.5.1 Assistance for Individuals with Disabilities
The Office of Disability Resources at Carnegie Mellon University has a continued mission to
provide physical and programmatic campus access to all events and information within the
Carnegie Mellon community. We work to ensure that qualified individuals receive reasonable
accommodations as guaranteed by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and Sections 503
and 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. Students who would like to receive accommodations
must submit a Voluntary Disclosure of Disability Form to access@andrew.cmu.edu to begin the
interactive accommodation process.
For more information, please see https://www.cmu.edu/disability-resources/.Students with
physical, sensory, cognitive, or emotional disabilities are encouraged to self-identify with the
Office of Disability Resources and request needed accommodations. Any questions about the
process can be directed to access@andrew.cmu.edu, or call (412) 268-6121.
11.5.2 Summary of Graduate Student Appeal and Grievance Procedures
Students who believe that they have been inappropriately treated are encouraged to raise their
concern(s) with the Program Director, department head, or other designated person in their
department, college, or central administration according to University policies. No effort will be
made to prevent or discourage anyone from availing themselves of such procedures (see
Graduate Student Appeal and Procedures www.cmu.edu/graduate/policies/appeal-grievance-
procedures.html).
Graduate students will find the Summary of Graduate Student Appeal and Grievance
Procedures on the Graduate Education Resource web page. This document summarizes
processes available to graduate students who seek review of academic and non-academic issues.
Graduate students are expected to seek informal resolution of all concerns within the applicable
department, unit or program before invoking formal processes. When an informal resolution
cannot be reached, however, a graduate student who seeks further review of the matter is to
follow the formal procedures outlined here. These appeal and grievance procedures shall apply
to students in all graduate programs of the University. Students should refer to the department
specific information in this handbook for department and college information about the
administration and academic policies of the program. Additionally, students may confer with<sep>the Graduate Education Office (grad-ed@cmu.edu) on issues of process or other concerns as
they navigate conflicts.
11.5.3 Process for Appealing Final Grades
https://www.cmu.edu/graduate/policies/appeal-grievance-procedures.html.
Final grades will be changed only in exceptional circumstances and only with the approval of
the instructor and the department, unit or program. Grading is a matter of sound discretion of
the instructor and final grades are rarely changed without the consent of the instructor who
assigned the grade. The following circumstances are the unusual exceptions that may warrant a
grade appeal: (a) the final grade assigned for a course is based on manifest error (e.g. a clear error
such as arithmetic error in computing a grade or failure to grade one of the answers on an exam),
or (b) the faculty or staff member who assigned the grade did so in violation of a University
policy
11.5.4 Safeguarding Educational Equity:
Policy Against Sexual Harassment and Sexual Assault
The University prohibits sex-based discrimination, sexual harassment, sexual assault, dating/
domestic violence and stalking. The University also prohibits retaliation against individuals
who bring forward such concerns or allegations in good faith. The University’s Sexual
Misconduct Policy is available at www.cmu.edu/policies/administrative-and-
governance/sexual-harassment-and-sexual-assault.html. If you believe you have been the victim
of sexual harassment or sexual assault, you are encouraged to make contact with any of the
following resources:
 Office of Title IX Initiatives, http://www.cmu.edu/title-ix/, 412-268-7125
 Sexual Harassment Advisors, found in Appendix A of the Policy Against Sexual
Harassment and Sexual Assault;
 Survivor Support Network, found in Appendix B of the Policy Against Sexual
Harassment and Sexual Assault;
 Sexual Harassment Process and Title IX Coordinators, found in section II of the Policy
Against Sexual Harassment and Sexual Assault;
 University Police, 412-268-2323
 University Health Services, 412-268-2157
 Counseling & Psychological Services, 412-268-2922<sep>Additional resources and information can be found at: https://www.cmu.edu/title-ix/resources-
and-information/resources.html.
The University’s Policy Against Retaliation is available at
https://www.cmu.edu/policies/administrative-and-governance/whistleblower.html
The MSAII program has a ZERO TOLERANCE policy on sexual harassment and sexual assault.
If you are found to have violated Carnegie Mellon policy, you will be dropped from the MSAII
program immediately without exception. CMU has spent decades successfully developing a
non-threatening environment for all genders and no one will be permitted to interfere with that
accomplishment.
Consensual Intimate Relationship Policy Regarding Undergraduate Students
https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/consensual-relationships.html
This policy is relevant for graduate students who will be in a supervisory role of undergraduate
students as a TA or in a research lab/studio setting. This policy addresses the circumstances in
which romantic, sexual or amorous relationships/interactions with undergraduate students,
even if consensual, are inappropriate and prohibited. The purpose of this policy is to assure
healthy professional relationships. This policy is not intended to discourage consensual intimate
relationships unless there is a conflicting professional relationship in which one party has
authority over the other as in the policy.
11.5.5 Cultural Tolerance
The MSAII program is extremely diverse for a program of its size. We have students from
numerous different countries who must work effectively in a team setting. The students
invariably come from very different cultures that have differing attitudes towards age, gender,
and group interaction. The program management understands this, but the students must also
recognize that this program is being conducted in the United States and operates according to
U.S. norms. Students and faculty, regardless of background, age, or rank, must deal with each
other respectfully without insult or raised voices. It is impossible to conduct teamwork in any
other way. Violations will be dealt with harshly. The Program Director is not sympathetic to
such behavior, which will not be tolerated. Repeated infractions, or a serious single infraction
may result in termination from the program.
11.5.6 Language Policy
The MSAII program is a component of the Language Technologies Institute, which studies and
celebrates the diversity of human language and forms of expression. The LTI also recognizes the
futility and unfairness of attempting to determine the language students must use when
communicating. However, it is unprofessional in any official team meeting to speak a language<sep>that is not understood by all team members. For example, if all members of a team understand
Chinese, then they may use Chinese in team meetings. However, if even one team member does
not understand Chinese, then a language must be used that is understood by all team members.
It is recommended that non-native speakers of English use English as much as possible if they
intend to seek employment in an English-speaking country.
11.5.7 Childbirth/Maternity Accommodation Protocol
The Maternity Policy is available at https://www.cmu.edu/graduate/programs-
services/maternity-accommodation-protocol.html.
Students whose anticipated delivery date is during the course of the semester may consider
taking time away from their coursework and research responsibilities. All female students who
give birth to a child while engaged in coursework or research are eligible to take either a short-
term absence or formal leave of absence. Students in course work should consider either
working with their course instructor to receive incomplete grades or elect to drop to part-time
status or to take a semester leave of absence. Students engaged in research must work with
their faculty to develop plans for the research for the time they are away.
● Students must contact the Office of the Dean of Student Affairs to register for Maternity
Accommodations. Students will complete an information form and meet with a member of the
Dean’s Office staff to determine resources and procedures appropriate for the individual student.
○ Planning for the student’s discussion with appropriate academic contact(s)
(advisor, associate dean, etc.) may be reviewed during this meeting.
● Students in course work should consider options for the semester of the anticipated
birth such as working with their course instructors to receive incomplete grades, electing to
drop to part-time status or taking a full semester leave of absence.
● Students engaged in research must work with their faculty to develop plans for the
research for the time they are away and for resuming upon return.
● Master's students who receive an academic stipend funded by Carnegie Mellon are
eligible to continue to receive stipend funding for up to six (6) weeks during a Short-Term
Maternity Accommodation or a Formal Leave of Absence. Continued academic stipend funding
may be extended by two (2) weeks, for a total of eight (8) weeks, if an absence longer than six
weeks is medically necessary. To receive this support students must be registered with the
Office of the Dean of Students.
Students are encouraged to consult with relevant university faculty and staff as soon as possible
as they begin making plans regarding time away. Students must contact the Office of the Dean
of Student Affairs to register for Maternity Accommodations. Students will complete an
information form and meet with a member of Dean’s Office staff to determine resources and<sep>procedures appropriate for the individual student. Planning for the student’s discussion with
her academic contact(s) (advisor, associate dean, etc.) will be reviewed during this meeting.
11.6 Statute of Limitations
As outlined in the Master’s Students Statute of Limitations, www.cmu.edu/policies/student-
and-student-life/masters-students-statute-of-limitations.html, students must complete all
requirements for the master’s degree within a maximum of seven years from original
matriculation as a master’s student, or less if required by a more restrictive department, school
or college policy. Once this time-to-degree limit has lapsed, the person may resume work
towards a master’s degree only if newly admitted to a currently offered master’s degree program
under criteria determined by that program.
Under extraordinary circumstances, such as leave of absence, military or public service, family or
parental leave, or temporary disability, a school or college may, upon the relevant department's
recommendation and with the written approval of the dean (or designate), defer the lapse for a
period commensurate with the duration of that interruption. Students who are pursuing a
master’s degree as part-time students for all semesters of their program, as approved by their
program, may also appeal to their program or department for extension of the time to degree
limit.
Any request for a waiver of the statute of limitations must be approved by the Department Head
and by the SCS Associate Dean for Masters Programs. The waiver request must explain the
exceptional circumstances that warrant an extension. For cases in which a waiver is granted,
the waiver will cover specific courses and will specify a time period for completion of the
program.
See also the ‘Duration of Study’ policy.
11.7 Residency Requirement
The MSAII is a full-time, in-residence program conducted only on the Pittsburgh campus. In
exceptional circumstances, such as visa complications or medical exigencies, permission may be
granted by the Director allowing a student to participate in short portions of the program
remotely. This is not possible for first-year students.
12 Financial Issues
12.1 Graduate Student Funding<sep>The LTI does not provide financial aid or support to students in the professional MS programs.
Students are encouraged to seek financial aid and support from other sources. The HUB website
(https://www.cmu.edu/sfs/financial-aid/graduate/index.html) provides the Graduate Financial
Aid Guide, information about funding options and how to apply for financial aid and other
helpful links. Additional information on financial issues for graduate students can be found on
the web at www.cmu.edu/hub/new-grad/.
Students in the professional MS programs are not prohibited from seeking support as Teaching
Assistants and Research Assistants. However, typically full-time MS students do not have time
for these activities. Typically Research Assistantships are most likely to be awarded to students
in Carnegie Mellon’s research-oriented degree programs.
12.2 University Financial Aid
Graduate students should consult the graduate student financial aid information found on The
HUB website: www.cmu.edu/sfs/financial-aid/graduate/index.html. Students will find the
Graduate Financial Aid Guide, information about funding options and how to apply for financial
aid and other helpful links.
12.3 Health Insurance
Carnegie Mellon has a Student Health Insurance policy requiring full-time, degree-seeking
students to carry adequate medical insurance. Students must either purchase the plan offered by
the University or an application for a waiver can be made if the student is “enrolled as the
dependent, partner/spouse or principal in an employer or government-sponsored insurance
plan” (see the Carnegie Mellon University Student Health Insurance Policy at
https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/student-health-insurance.html).
It is the responsibility of each student to make arrangements with Student Health Services to
either pay for their insurance at the beginning of the semester, or elect a payment plan over the
course of the academic year. More information is available at the Student Health Services Web
site www.cmu.edu/health-services/student-insurance/.
12.4 Emergency Loans
https://www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/dean/loans/
All students regardless of their program are eligible for the Emergency Student Loan, which is an
interest-free and emergency-based loan repayable within 30 days. It is available through the
Office of the Dean of Student Affairs; students may apply for the loan by stopping in to the
Student Affairs Office, Warner Hall 321, or by calling (412) 268-2075 for an appointment.<sep>13 Additional University Resources
13.1 The HUB Student Services Center
thehub@andrew.cmu.edu and www.cmu.edu/hub/
The HUB is located in Warner Hall, Lower Level. The HUB staff delivers comprehensive service
and counsel to students and families regarding financial aid, billing and payment, registration
and academic records. The Assistant Directors in The HUB serve as contacts for specific colleges
and assist enrolled students with key aspects of the enrollment process. A student can find their
assigned HUB Assistant Director on their Student Information Online (SIO) Resource
page. Questions that need specialized, in-depth attention can be directed to the student's
assigned Assistant Director. For general questions and information, students may email The
HUB or call 412-268-8186.
13.2 Student Information Online (SIO)
Student Information Online (SIO) is a secure site where students can find important,
personalized information, including E-Bills and student account information, financial aid status
and eligibility, grades and QPA, and course schedules. Students can update their and their
spouse’s or domestic partner's contact information, sign up for E-Check & E-Refund, authorize
their spouses, domestic partners or another individual to receive a copy of their E-Bill, request
verifications, view their housing and meal plan assignments, and much more. Students can log
on to SIO by going to www.cmu.edu/hub/sio and entering their Andrew User ID and password.
On SIO, students will designate an emergency contact address of a relative or family friend to be
contacted in the case of an emergency. If students do not want their name and address
published in the campus directory, they must notify the HUB in writing.
13.3 ID Cards
Graduate students can obtain their ID card from The HUB once they have been entered into SIO
for the semester. These cards identify their holders as members of the campus community.
Student cards are deactivated upon the cardholder’s separation from the university.
Affiliate ID Cards are available for spouses and partners of graduate students that allow them to
access Carnegie Mellon’s campus. These cards are available through The HUB to spouses and
partners of graduate students who are enrolled for the current academic year in a full-time
graduate degree program. The card is valid for one year. For information about domestic
partner registration, visit the Office of the Dean of Student Affairs webpage:
www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/dean/domestic-partner/.<sep>For more information about student and affiliate ID cards (spouse, domestic partners and
dependent children), please visit https://www.cmu.edu/oie/settling-in-guide/information-for-
families.html.
13.4 Transcripts
Information about and instructions for ordering transcripts are available at:
www.cmu.edu/hub/registrar/student-records/transcripts/. Transcript questions may be directed
to cmuregistrar@andrew.cmu.edu.
13.5 Pittsburgh Council on Higher Education (PCHE) and Cross-registration
www.cmu.edu/hub/registrar/registration/cross/index.html
Cross-registration provides an opportunity for enriched educational programs by permitting
full-time graduate students to cross-register for courses (usually no more than one per semester)
at a Pittsburgh Council on Higher Education (PCHE) Institution. Full-time Carnegie Mellon
degree students are eligible and the PCHE course may not count towards full-time status unless
the student is enrolled in an inter-university program. Students interested in taking advantage
of this opportunity should be familiar with the Policy on Grades for Transfer Courses already
outlined previously in this handbook.
Department specific information about graduate students’ ability to cross register and transfer
grades should be included here.
13.6 Student Privacy Rights and FERPA
www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/privacy-rights-students.html
This university policy notifies students of their rights under the federal Family Educational
Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). According to FERPA, students have the right to:
 inspect and review their education records;
 request an amendment to their education record if they believe they are inaccurate or
misleading;
 request a hearing if their request for an amendment is not resolved to their satisfaction;
 consent to disclosure of personally identifiable information from their education records,
except to the extent that FERPA authorizes disclosure without consent;
 file a complaint with the U.S. Department of Education Family Policy Compliance Office
if they believe their rights under FERPA have been violated.<sep>For questions about Student Privacy Rights, FERPA or filing a complaint, contact John
Papinchak, University Registrar, jp7p@andrew.cmu.edu, in Enrollment Services.
13.7 Academic Calendar
The official academic calendar is published by Enrollment Services. It is not uncommon for
departments and colleges to have academic requirements that differ from or are in addition to
those presented in the academic calendar provided to the campus community by Enrollment
Services. See https://www.cmu.edu/hub/calendar/docs/2223-academic-calendar.pdf..
13.8 Professional Development
The Career and Professional Development Center (CPDC) (www.cmu.edu/career/)at Carnegie
Mellon is a centralized career center staffed by a team of seasoned and highly-educated
professionals who orchestrate the career exploration, experiential learning, and career
networking needs of students and alumni.
Carnegie Mellon's career and professional development model is grounded in discipline-specific
career development, experiential learning, and employer relations shaped by strong connections
with the university's seven academic colleges. The center's success is founded upon a solid
understanding of career and professional development theory, integration of technology, and an
unwavering commitment to providing personalized attention towards meeting the unique
individual needs of students, alumni, and employers. The CDPC is located on the second floor of
the West Wing Dormitory, 412-268-2064.
The Office of the Assistant Vice Provost for Graduate Education (AVPGE) offers a robust
schedule of professional development opportunities. Some are geared towards a specific
population (master’s students, PhD students at the beginning of their program, graduate
students seeking tenure track positions, etc.) and others are open to all graduate students (time
management, balancing, staying healthy). A full schedule of programs can be found at:
www.cmu.edu/graduate/.
13.9 University Libraries
search.library.cmu.edu
There are three main libraries at Carnegie Mellon: Hunt Library, Mellon Institute Library and
Engineering & Science Library with the combined mission of providing access and help to
graduate students in finding the information needed, teaching graduate students to evaluate
available information and use reliable sources. The libraries’ digital resources and services,
including off-campus/ wireless access to databases and e-journals, offer online access. There are<sep>also two neighboring libraries open to Carnegie Mellon graduate students: Carnegie Library of
Pittsburgh and University of Pittsburgh Libraries. Visit the University Libraries website for
information about all mentioned library locations and hours, on-line resources and FAQ’s.
13.10 Computing Services
www.cmu.edu/computing/
Computing Services is located in Cyert Hall 285. Computing Services develops, maintains and
supports the computing infrastructure for Carnegie Mellon students, faculty members and staff
members. This includes the campus wired and wireless networks, public computer labs or
“clusters,” cable television and telephone services, computing related documentation and
support through the Help Center. In addition, Computing Services provides standard classroom
technologies for over 100 lecture halls, classrooms and seminar rooms across campus. The
website contains additional information regarding The Help Center hours, location and contact
information, computing cluster hours and location, the Carnegie Mellon web portal, computing
security and policies and guidelines. Students can email the Help Center at it-help@cmu.edu
with questions and for assistance.
13.11 Family and Dependents Resources
The Graduate Student Assembly website maintains a resource page for spouses, domestic
partners and families of graduate students: www.cmu.edu/stugov/gsa/Resources-for-Graduate-
Students/Partner-and-Family-Resources.html, including The Student Parent Association, new
mother rooms, and links to resources around campus and the Pittsburgh area.
13.12 Domestic Partner Registration
Carnegie Mellon extends certain benefits to domestic partners of students. Eligible students
may elect benefits for their domestic partners through the registration process orchestrated by
the Office of the Dean of Students, 3rd floor Warner Hall. Information regarding the benefits
available for domestic partners, eligibility for domestic partner benefits, registration
instructions and forms can be located at: www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/dean/domestic-partner/.
13.13 Housing
The university does not currently offer housing to graduate students. The Office of Housing
and Dining Services provides community housing information to assist graduate students who
are seeking housing in the communities surrounding the university, including information on<sep>the legal aspects of renting an apartment, moving checklists and the off-campus housing
database. This information can be located at: https://www.cmu.edu/housing/.
13.14 Dining
www.cmu.edu/dining/
Dining services and operations are offered through the Office of Housing and Dining Services.
The office operates dining locations open around campus in academic buildings, Hunt Library
and the University Center. These locations offer flexible hours with options from the early
morning through late night. The Dining Services website contains information about dining
locations, hours of operation, graduate student dining plans forms, nutritional information, and
weekly menus for dining locations.
13.15 Parking and Transportation
www.cmu.edu/parking/
Graduate students will find information about parking and availability, parking policies,
transportation options and Port Authority Transit usage with a valid university ID on the
Parking and Transportation Services site. The Parking and Transportation Services office is
located in the East Campus Garage by the Forbes Ave entrance. There is limited parking on
campus, and the varying permit rates can be found on the website. All parking areas of campus
are either by permit, metered or by the hour in the garage. Parking and Transportation Services
will ticket any car parked in a permit area without a permit or at an expired meter. The city
monitors the metered parking along Margaret Morrison, Frew and Tech Streets and will ticket
at expired meters as well.
The university offers shuttle and escort services operated by University Police. The Shuttle
Service operates several routes within Oakland, Squirrel Hill and Shadyside areas, as well as to
University sites located outside of the main campus. The Escort Service offers vehicle routes
within a radius of campus between 6:30 pm-4:15 am daily. Information regarding up-to-date
shuttle and escort schedules, pick-up/drop-off locations, routes and usage policies can be found
at www.cmu.edu/parking/shuttle/index.html.
SafeWalk provides another option to campus community members walking across and around
campus during late-night hours. SafeWalk is a student volunteer organization that provides
campus escorts for all members of the Carnegie Mellon community. SafeWalk operates nightly
during the regular academic year (except certain holidays and break periods) from 10pm until
2am. Students, faculty, and staff may request an escort by calling 412-268-SAFE (8-7233 from a
campus phone), by approaching an escort team, or by stopping by the SafeWalk dispatch area in
the University Center, Lower Level near the Post Office Package Pick-Up window between
10pm-2am. SafeWalk will escort to locations approximately one mile from campus. Additional<sep>SafeWalk information can be found at https://www.cmu.edu/admission/campus-
experience/student-services.
13.16 Copying, Printing and Mailing Services
Carnegie Mellon offers community members easy access to FedEx, copy centers, printing and
mailing services, and postal services. More information regarding these services, locations and
contact information can be found in The Word at
www.cmu.edu/tartanink/copyprint/index.html
13.17 University Center
www.cmu.edu/university-center
The University Center is a centerpiece of the campus that provides a space for special events,
physical fitness, student organizations and various activities, as well as accommodating retail
and dining services. As the campus crossroads, the University Center functions as a place for
students to interact, get involved and enjoy new experiences. Visit the University Center
website for information about campus eateries, ATMs and PNC Bank, fitness rooms and
schedules, retail stores, scheduling University Center space, the public prayer room, student
organizations and the Wright-Rogal Chapel.
The University Center Information Desk is the location if you want to know about upcoming
campus events or have questions about Carnegie Mellon in general, call the Information Desk at
412-268-2107. The Information Desk not only provides information about campus events, but
also sells postage stamps, makes copies, sends faxes, distributes campus maps, manages a lost &
found, and has information brochures about Pittsburgh and the campus.
13.18 Athletic/Fitness Facilities
www.cmu.edu/athletics
For the participant or the spectator, Carnegie Mellon offers intercollegiate athletics, intramural
sports, physical education classes and club sports. The Athletics Department also offers aerobics
classes in the University Center and Skibo Gym as well as occasional workshops and instruction
related to fitness and health. The Athletics Office is located in the Cohon University Center.
Skibo Gym facilities include courts for basketball, volleyball, badminton, as well as weight-
training and aerobic equipment. The University Center’s recreational facilities include an eight-
lane pool, racquetball and squash courts, aerobics room, fitness center and gym for basketball
and volleyball. All users must present a current Carnegie Mellon Card to use these facilities.<sep>13.19 CMU Alert
www.cmu.edu/alert
CMU Alert sends voice and/or text messages to registered phones in the event of a campus
emergency that threatens public safety or during tests of the system in the spring and fall
semesters. Students can register for CMU Alert through the website.
14 Appendix A: 2022-2023 University Resources for Graduate Students
14.1 Key Offices for Graduate Student Support
14.1.1 Graduate Education Office
www.cmu.edu/graduate; grad-ed@cmu.edu
The Graduate Education Office provides central support for all Master’s and Doctoral students
with a focus on their academic experience at Carnegie Mellon. The Graduate Education Office
serves as a hub for connecting graduate students to relevant campus experts and resources to
support their academic success, understanding of university level policies and practices and to assist
them in advancing their personal and professional development.
Examples of resources offered through the Graduate Education Office include- but are not
limited to:
 Website with university resources, contact information for CMU programs and
services, calendar of events related to graduate students
 Bi-monthly email to all graduate students with information on activities, resources
and opportunities
 Professional Development Seminars and Workshops
 GSA/Provost Conference Funding Grants
 GSA/Provost Small Research Grants (GuSH)
 Consultations on issues related to the graduate student experience
The Graduate Education Office also works with the colleges and departments by informing and
assisting in developing policy and procedures relevant to graduate students and working with
departments on issues related to graduate students. Additionally we partner with many other
offices and organizations, such as the Graduate Student Assembly, to support the holistic graduate
student educational experience
14.1.2 Office of the Dean of Students
https://www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/dean<sep>The Office of the Dean of Students provides central leadership of the metacurricular
experience at Carnegie Mellon including the coordination of student support. Vice President
of Student Affairs and Dean of Students Gina Casalegno leads the Division of Student Affairs
which includes the offices and departments listed below (not an exhaustive list).
Graduate students will find the enrollment information for Domestic Partner Registration and
Maternity Accommodations in the Office of the Dean of Students or on their website. This
Office also manages the Emergency Student Loan (ESLs) process. Emergency Student Loans
are made available through generous gifts of alumni and friends of the university. The
Emergency Student Loan is an interest-free, emergency-based loan repayable to the university
within 30 days. Loans are available to enrolled students for academic supplies, medication,
food or other expenses not able to be met due to unforeseeable circumstances.
Additional resources for graduate students include College Liaisons and the Student Support
Resources team. College Liaisons are senior members of the Division of Student Affairs who
work with departments and colleges addressing student concerns across a wide range of
issues. College Liaisons are identified on the student SIO page in the Important Contacts list.
The Student Support Resources team offers an additional level of support for students who are
navigating any of a wide range of life events. Student Support Resources staff members work
in partnership with campus and community resources to provide coordination of care and
support appropriate to each student’s situation.
The Division of Student Affairs includes (not an exhaustive list):
 Athletics, Physical Education and Recreation
 Career and Professional Development Center (CPDC)
 Center for Student Diversity and Inclusion
 Cohon University Center
 Counseling & Psychological Services (CaPS)
 Dining Services
 Office of Community Standards and Integrity (OCSI)
 Office of Student Leadership, Involvement, and Civic Engagement (SLICE)
 University Health Services (UHS)
 Wellness Initiatives
14.1.3 Center for Student Diversity & Inclusion
https://www.cmu.edu/student-diversity/
Diversity and inclusion have a singular place among the values of Carnegie Mellon University.<sep>The Center for Student Diversity & Inclusion actively cultivates a strong, diverse and inclusive
community capable of living out these values and advancing research, creativity, learning and
development that changes the world.
The Center offers resources to enhance an inclusive and transformative student experience in
dimensions such as access, success, campus climate and intergroup dialogue. Additionally, the
Center supports and connects historically underrepresented students and those who are first in
their family to attend college in a setting where students’ differences and talents are appreciated
and reinforced, both at the graduate and undergraduate level. Initiatives coordinated by the
Center include, but are not limited to:
 First generation/first in family to attend college programs
 LGBTQ+ Initiatives
 Race and ethnically-focused programs, including Inter-University Graduate Students of
Color Series (SOC) and PhD SOC Network
 Women’s empowerment programs, including Graduate Women’s Gatherings (GWGs)
 Transgender and non-binary student programs
14.1.4 Assistance for Individuals with Disabilities
http://www.cmu.edu/disability-resources/
The Office of Disability Resources at Carnegie Mellon University has a continued mission to
provide physical, digital, and programmatic access to ensure that students with disabilities have
equal access to their educational experience. We work to ensure that qualified individuals
receive reasonable accommodations as guaranteed by the Americans with Disabilities Act
(ADA) and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. Students who would like to receive
accommodations can begin the process through Disability Resources' secure online portal or
email access@andrew.cmu.edu to begin the interactive accommodation process.
Students with physical, sensory, cognitive, or emotional disabilities are encouraged to self-
identify with the Office of Disability Resources and request needed accommodations. Any
questions about the process can be directed to access@andrew.cmu.edu, or call (412) 268-6121.
14.1.5 Eberly Center for Teaching Excellence & Educational Innovation
www.cmu.edu/teaching
We offer a wide variety of confidential, consultation services and professional development
programs to support graduate students as teaching assistants or instructors of record during
their time at Carnegie Mellon University and as future faculty members at other institutions.
Regardless of one's current or future teaching context and duties, our goal is to disseminate
evidence-based teaching strategies in ways that are accessible and actionable. Programs and<sep>services include campus-wide Graduate Student Instructor Orientation events and our Future
Faculty Program, both of which are designed to help participants be effective and efficient in
their teaching roles. The Eberly Center also assists departments in creating and conducting
customized programs to meet the specific needs of their graduate student instructors. Specific
information about Eberly Center support for graduate students is found at
www.cmu.edu/teaching/graduatestudentsupport/index.html.
14.1.6 Graduate Student Assembly
www.cmu.edu/stugov/gsa/index.html
The Graduate Student Assembly (GSA) is the branch of Carnegie Mellon Student Government
that represents, and advocates for the diverse interests of all graduate students at CMU. GSA is
composed of representatives from the different graduate programs and departments who want
to improve the graduate student experience at the different levels of the university. GSA is
funded by the Student Activities Fee from all graduate students. GSA passes legislation, allocates
student activities funding, advocates for legislative action locally and in Washington D.C. on
behalf of graduate student issues and needs, and otherwise acts on behalf of all graduate student
interests. Our recent accomplishments are a testament to GSA making a difference, and steps to
implementing the vision laid out by the strategic plan. https://www.cmu.edu/stugov/gsa/About-
the-GSA/Strategic-Plan.html.
GSA offers an expanding suite of social programming on and off-campus to bring graduate
students from different departments together and build a sense of community. GSA is the host
of the Graduate Student Lounge on the 3rd floor of the Cohon University Center- a great place to
study or meet up with friends. GSA also maintains a website of graduate student resources on
and off-campus. Through GSA’s continued funding for professional development and research
conferences, the GSA/Provost Conference Funding Program and GSA/Provost GuSH Research
Grants are able to run, as managed by the Graduate Education Office. As we move forward, GSA
will continue to rely on your feedback to improve the graduate student experience at CMU. Feel
free to contact us at <gsa@cmu.edu> to get involved, stop by our office in the Cohon University
Center Room 304 or become a representative for your department.
14.1.7 Office of International Education (OIE)
http://www.cmu.edu/oie/
Carnegie Mellon hosts international graduate and undergraduate students who come from
more than 90 countries. The Office of International Education (OIE) is the liaison to the
University for all non-immigrant students and scholars, as well the repository for study
abroad opportunities and advisement. OIE provides many services including: advising on
personal, immigration, study abroad, academic, and social and acculturation issues; presenting
programs of interest such as international career workshops, tax workshops, and cross-<sep>cultural and immigration workshops; international education and statistics on international
students in the United States; posting pertinent information to students through email and
the OIE website, and conducting orientation and pre-departure programs.
14.1.8 Veterans and Military Community
http://www.cmu.edu/veterans/
Military veterans are a vital part of the Carnegie Mellon University community. Graduate
students can find information on applying for veteran education benefits, campus services,
veteran’s groups at CMU, and non-educational resources through the Veterans and Military
Community website. There are also links and connections to veteran resource in the Pittsburgh
community. The ROTC and Veteran Affairs Coordinator can be reached at uro-
vaedbenefits@andrew.cmu.edu or 412-268-8747.
14.1.9 Carnegie Mellon Ethics Hotline
https://www.cmu.edu/hr/resources/ethics-hotline.html
The health, safety and well-being of the university community are top priorities at Carnegie
Mellon University. CMU provides a hotline that all members of the university community
should use to confidentially report suspected unethical activity relating to areas below:
 Academic and Student Life
 Bias Reporting
 Environmental Health and Safety
 Financial Matters
 High-Risk Incident
 Human Resource Related
 Information Systems
 Research
 Threat of Business Interruption
 Threat of Violence or Physical Harm
 Title IX
Students, faculty and staff can anonymously file a report by calling 877-700-7050 or
visiting www.reportit.net(user name: tartans; password: plaid). All submissions are reported to
appropriate university personnel.
The hotline is NOT an emergency service. For emergencies, call University Police at 412-
268-2323.
14.2 Key Offices for Academic & Research Support<sep>14.2.1 Computing and Information Resources
www.cmu.edu/computing
Computing Services maintains and supports computing resources for the campus community,
including the campus wired and wireless networks, printing, computer labs, file storage, email
and software catalog. As members of this community, we are all responsible for the security of
these shared resources. Be sure to review the Safe Computing
(https://www.cmu.edu/computing/safe/) section and the University Computing Policy
(https://www.cmu.edu/policies/information-technology/computing.html)
Visit the Computing Services website (https://www.cmu.edu/computing/) to learn more. For
assistance the Computing Services Help Center is available at 412-268-4357 (HELP) or it-
help@cmu.edu.
14.2.2 Student Academic Success Center
https://www.cmu.edu/student-success/
Student Academic Support Programs
Tartan Scholars
 The Tartan Scholars program was created to provide support for limited resourced
students through an intentional first year undergraduate experience with the goals of
enhancing the cohort’s skill and community building through a lens of self -authorship,
growth mindset, and a sense of belonging. As part of the Student Academic Success
Center, Tartan Scholars are invited to join the University and participate in summer
initiatives and pre-orientation activities prior to their first year at the University.
 There are opportunities for graduate students to serve as accountability, learning, or
development partners, workshop facilitators, and presenters. Contact Diane Hightower
at ddhighto@andrew.cmu.edu for more details.
Learning Support
 Supplemental Instruction: Supplemental Instruction (SI) is an academic support model
that utilizes peer-assisted study sessions. The SI program provides regularly scheduled
review sessions on course materials outside the classroom. SI is a non-remedial approach
to learning as the program targets high-risk courses and is available in select courses
based on data related to past student performance and feasibility.
 Peer Tutoring: Weekly Tutoring Appointments are offered in a one-on-one and small
group format to students from any discipline who need assistance with a course that may
not be supported by our other services. Weekly appointments give students the
opportunity to interact regularly with the same tutor to facilitate deeper understanding<sep>of concepts. Students can register online through the Student Academic Success website.
 Academic Coaching: Academic Coaching provides holistic one-on-one peer support and
group workshops to help students find and implement their conditions for success. We
assist students in improving time management, productive habits, organization, stress
management, and study skills. Students will request support through the Academic
Success Center website and attend in-person meetings or meet using video and audio
conferencing technology to provide all students with support.
 “Just in Time” Workshops: The Student Academic Success team is available to partner
with instructors and departments to identify skills or concepts that would benefit from
supplemental offerings (workshops, boot camps) to support students’ academic success
and learning. We are eager to help convene and coordinate outside of the classroom
skill-building opportunities that can be open to any student interested in building skill
or reinforcing course concept mastery.
 Study Partners: Support for students to create and benefit from their own study groups:
The Student Academic Success team assists students in forming and benefiting from peer
study groups, whereby all students can reap the benefits of peer-to-peer learning,
student agency, and collaboration skill development. Staff from the Student Academic
Success Center will be made available to instructors and students to assist with the
formation of peer-led study groups. This level of support is open to any course where the
instructor requests or agrees such support is appropriate and students are interested in
both leading and participating.
Language and Cross-cultural Support
More than 60% of graduate students at Carnegie Mellon are international students, and others
are nonnative speakers of English who have attended high school or undergraduate programs in
the US. Many of these students want to hone their language and cross-cultural skills for
academic and professional success. Students can choose from sessions on
 how to give a strong presentation,
 writing academic emails,
 expectations and strategies for clear academic writing,
 how to talk about yourself as a professional in the U.S.,
 developing clearer pronunciation,
 using accurate grammar,
 building fluency, and more.
 Students can make an appointment with a Language Development Specialist to get
individualized coaching on language or cross-cultural issues.
The Student Academic Success Center is also charged with certifying the language of
International Teaching Assistants (ITAs), ensuring that nonnative English speakers have the
language proficiency needed to succeed as teaching assistants in the Carnegie Mellon classroom.<sep>Students preparing to do an ITA Certification should plan to take classes offered by the
language support team at the SASC from the beginning of their first semester. Start by
contacting the language support team at the SASC website or attend a Language Support
Orientation at the SASC or in your department.
14.2.3 University Libraries
www.library.cmu.edu
The University Libraries offers a wide range of information resources and services supporting
graduate students in course-work, research, teaching, and publishing. The library licenses and
purchases books, journals, media and other needed materials in various formats. Library liaisons,
consultants and information specialists provide in-depth and professional assistance and advice
in all-things information - including locating and obtaining specific resources, providing
specialized research support, advanced training in the use and management of data. Sign up for
workshops and hands-on topic-specific sessions such as data visualization with Tableau,
cleaning data with OpenRefine, and getting started with Zotero. Weekly drop-in hours for
Digital Humanities and for Research Data Research Management are scheduled during the
academic year. Start at the library home page to find the books, journals and databases you need;
to identify and reach out to the library liaison in your field; to sign up for scheduled workshops;
and to connect with consultants in scholarly publishing, research data management, and digital
humanities.
14.2.4 Research at Carnegie Mellon
www.cmu.edu/research/index.shtml
The primary purpose of research at the university is the advancement of knowledge in all fields
in which the university is active. Research is regarded as one of the university’s major
contributions to society and as an essential element in education, particularly at the graduate
level and in faculty development. Research activities are governed by several university policies.
Guidance and more general information can be found by visiting the Research at Carnegie
Mellon website.
14.2.5 Office of Research Integrity & Compliance
www.cmu.edu/research-compliance/index.html
The Office of Research Integrity & Compliance (ORIC) is designed to support research at
Carnegie Mellon University. The staff work with researchers to ensure research is conducted
with integrity and in accordance with federal and Pennsylvania regulation. ORIC assists
researchers with human subject research, conflicts of interest, responsible conduct of research,
export controls, and institutional animal care & use. ORIC also provides consultation, advice,
and review of allegations of research misconduct.<sep>14.3 Key Offices for Health, Wellness & Safety
14.3.1 Counseling & Psychological Services
https://www.cmu.edu/counseling/
Counseling & Psychological Services (CaPS) affords the opportunity for students to talk
privately about academic and personal concerns in a safe, confidential setting. An initial
consultation at CaPS can help clarify the nature of the concern, provide immediate support, and
explore further options if needed. These may include a referral for counseling within CaPS, to
another resource at Carnegie Mellon, or to another resource within the larger Pittsburgh
community. CaPS also provides workshops and group sessions on mental health related topics
specifically for graduate students on campus. CaPS services are provided at no
cost. Appointments can be made in person, or by telephone at 412-268-2922.
14.3.2 Health Services
www.cmu.edu/HealthServices/
University Health Services (UHS) is staffed by physicians, advanced practice clinicians and
registered nurses who provide general medical care, allergy injections, first aid, gynecological
care and contraception as well as on-site pharmaceuticals. The CMU Student Insurance Plan
covers most visit fees to see the physicians and advanced practice clinicians & nurse visits. Fees
for prescription medications, laboratory tests, diagnostic procedures and referral to the
emergency room or specialists are the student’s responsibility and students should review the
UHS website and their insurance plan for detailed information about the university health
insurance requirement and fees.
UHS also has a registered dietician and health promotion specialists on staff to assist students in
addressing nutrition, drug and alcohol and other healthy lifestyle issues. In addition to providing
direct health care, UHS administers the Student Health Insurance Program. The Student Health
Insurance plan offers a high level of coverage in a wide network of health care providers and
hospitals. Appointments can be made by visiting UHS’s website, walk-in, or by telephone, 412-
268-2157.
14.3.3 Campus Wellness
https://www.cmu.edu/wellness/
At Carnegie Mellon, we believe our individual and collective well-being is rooted in healthy
connections to each other and to campus resources. The university provides a wide variety of
wellness, mindfulness and connectedness initiatives and resources designed to help students
thrive inside and outside the classroom. The BeWell@CMU e-newsletter seeks to be a
comprehensive resource for CMU regarding all wellness-inspired events, announcements and
professional and personal development opportunities. Sign up for the Be Well monthly<sep>newsletter via https://bit.ly/BeWellNewsletter or by contacting the Program Director for
Student Affairs Wellness Initiatives, at alusk@andrew.cmu.edu.
14.3.4 Religious and Spiritual Life Initiatives (RSLI)
www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/spirituality
Carnegie Mellon is committed to the holistic growth of our students, including creating
opportunities for spiritual and religious practice and exploration. We have relationships with
local houses of worship from various traditions and many of these groups are members of CMU’s
Council of Religious Advisors. We also offer programs and initiatives that cross traditional
religious boundaries in order to increase knowledge of and appreciation for the full diversity of
the worldview traditions. Our RSLI staff are here to support students across the spectrum of
religious and spiritual practice and would be more than happy to help you make a connection
into a community of faith during your time at CMU.
14.3.5 University Police
http://www.cmu.edu/police/
412-268-2323 (emergency only), 412-268-6232 (non-emergency)
The University Police Department is located at 300 South Craig Street (entrance is on Filmore
Street). The department’s services include police patrols and call response, criminal
investigations, fixed officer and foot officer patrols, event security, and crime prevention and
education programming as well as bicycle and laptop registration. Visit the department’s
website for additional information about the staff, emergency phone locations, crime prevention,
lost and found, finger print services, and annual statistic reports.
Carnegie Mellon University publishes an annual campus security and fire safety report
describing the university’s security, alcohol and drug, sexual assault, and fire safety policies and
containing statistics about the number and type of crimes committed on the campus and the
number and cause of fires in campus residence facilities during the preceding three years.
Graduate students can obtain a copy by contacting the University Police Department at 412-
268-6232. The annual security and fire safety report is also available online at
https://www.cmu.edu/police/annualreports/.
14.3.6 Shuttle and Escort Services
Parking and Transportation coordinates the Shuttle Service and Escort Service provided for
CMU students, faculty, and community. The Shuttle & Escort website has full information
about these services, stops, routes, tracking and schedules.
14.4 The WORD<sep>http://www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/theword//
The WORD is Carnegie Mellon University’s student on-line handbook and is considered a
supplement to the department (and sometimes college) handbook. The WORD contains
campus resources and opportunities, academic policy information and resources, community
standards information and resources. It is designed to provide all students with the tools,
guidance, and insights to help you achieve your full potential as a member of the Carnegie
Mellon community. Information about the following is included in The WORD (not an
exhaustive list) and graduate students are encouraged to bookmark this site and refer to it
often. University policies can also be found in full text at: http://www.cmu.edu/policies/.
Carnegie Mellon Vision, Mission
Statement of Assurance
Carnegie Code
Academic Standards, Policies and Procedures
Educational Goals
Academic and Individual Freedom
Statement on Academic Integrity Standards for Academic & Creative Life
Assistance for Individuals with Disabilities
Master’s Student Statute of Limitations
Conduct of Classes
Copyright Policy
Cross-college & University Registration
Doctoral Student Status Policy
Evaluation & Certification of English Fluency for Instructors
Final Exams for Graduate Courses
Grading Policies
Intellectual Property Policy
Privacy Rights of Students
Student’s Rights
Research
Human Subjects in Research
Office of Research Integrity & Compliance
Office of Sponsored Programs
Policy for Handling Alleged Misconduct of Research
Policy on Restricted Research
Tax Status of Graduate Student Awards
Campus Resources & Opportunities
Alumni Relations
Assistance for Individuals with Disabilities<sep>Athletics, Physical Fitness & Recreation
Carnegie Mellon ID Cards and Services
Cohon University Center
Copying, Printing & Mailing
Division of Student Affairs
Domestic Partner Registration
Emergency Student Loan Program
Gender Programs & Resources
Health Services
Dining Services
The HUB Student Services Center
ID Card Services
Leonard Gelfand Center
LGBTQ Resources
Multicultural and Diversity Initiatives
Opportunities for Involvement
Parking and Transportation Services
Shuttle and Escort Services
Spiritual Development
University Police
Student Activities
University Stores
Community Standards, Policies and Procedures
Alcohol and Drugs Policy
AIDS Policy
Bicycle/Wheeled Transportation Policy
Damage to Carnegie Mellon Property
Deadly Weapons
Discriminatory Harassment
Disorderly Conduct
Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Policy
Freedom of Expression Policy
Health Insurance Policy Immunization Policy
Missing Student Protocol
Non-Discrimination Policy
On-Campus Emergencies
Pets
Political Activities
Recycling Policy
Riotous and Disorderly Behavior
Safety Hazards
Scheduling and Use of University Facilities
Sexual Harassment and Sexual Assault Policy
Smoking Policy<sep>Student Accounts Receivable and Collection Policy and Procedures
Student Activities Fee
Student Enterprises
Workplace Threats and Violence Policy<sep>