The Kiltie Band began in 1908 with a group of just seven students dedicated to supporting Carnegie Tech football, and today's Kiltie Band continues a tradition of excellence originated over a century ago. The Band took the field for its first official performance on November 25th, 1922, on what would have been Andrew Carnegie's 87th birthday.<sep>The Kiltie Marching Band consists of musicians and colorguard and plays at all Carnegie Mellon home football games. There is a new show every week with music ranging from traditional marches and oldies to current pop tunes and jazz standards.<sep>After football season, the Kiltie Concert Band plays a holiday concert and two spring concerts, including a performance at Carnegie Mellon’s Spring Carnival. Additionally, a part of the band gets together and acts as a pep band for the basketball teams.<sep>The Kiltie Band is a campus organization recognized by Student Senate and administered by the Department of Athletics, Physical Education and Recreation. Membership is open to all members of the campus/community without audition. Participants must do their best to promote the success of the ensemble through attendance, attitude, and dependability.<sep>FAQs Q: When are rehearsals? A: Football season: Mondays and Thursdays from 5:30 p.m.-7:30 p.m. and Game Day 9:30-11:00a.m. Concert Season: Mondays and Thursdays from 5:30-6:30 p.m. Location is the CUC Studio Theater.<sep>Q: When are performances? A: The Kiltie Band performs at all home football games, a holiday concert, and two spring concerts. Times and dates for all performances are announced at the first practice.<sep>Q: Are there auditions? A: No, any member of the campus community with music experience is able to join the Kiltie Band!<sep>Q: Do I have to memorize music? A: No, the music is changed for every show. You should invest in a good and trusty lyre.<sep>Q: When is the first rehearsal? A: On the first day of class (Monday) at 5:30 p.m. in the CUC Studio Theater. If you have questions, please email the Direcator at jolisar@andrew.cmu.edu.<sep>Q: Can I borrow a school instrument? A: There are several Kiltie-owned instruments available for your use. Loans begin at 4:30 p.m. before the first rehearsal.<sep>Q: What do they wear under those kilts? A: Join and you’ll find out! For more information, visit the Kiltie Band website.